Praktisk programmering - uge 1, exercise 1

A: How to start a terminal
	Either press Super, then search for terminal and then chose the terminal app
	Or Ctrl+Alt+T
B: Read about man utility (only the description)
	man is a command that can be called to show manuals for a program or the like. 
	
C: Learn the following core utilities: cp, ls, mkdir, mv, rm and cd.
	cp is copy a file or directory. it needs a source and a destination. 
	"cp test.txt /home/testfile/" will move the test.txt file in the current directory to /home/testfile folder 
	
	ls shows a list of the files and folder in the current directory. it can take different arguments to show different things, like ls -l will give a long list and and ls -t will sort the files by modifikation time (newest first)
	
	mkdir makes a new directory (folder) in the directory your in. It needs a name for the folder at an argument: "mkdir test" creates a new folder at the current directory. 
	
	mv moves/renames a file. It takes a source and a destination. mv test.txt test1.txt renames the test.txt file to test1.txt. if you want to move and rename it, you set the path in the destinatino argument: mv test.txt /home/test/test1.txt
	
	rm removes a file or directory. it can take different options but always needs a file to rm: rm test.txt
	
	cd changes directory. In a terminal the command is similar to you double clicking on a folder. instead you type: "cd foldername" to go into the folder in the current directory. 
	
D: Command line completion
	Command line completion is when the you are writing a word in the terminal, like "cd fold" and there is only one directory in your directory that starts with fold - by pressing Tab, it completes the word for you. If there are multiple directories/files in the current directory, a double tap will show the options. You then need to type a letter or two more, so that only the wanted directory can be completed with the letters typed in the command line. 
	
E: I like nano more than vim, so i will describe nano functions. 

F: Lets say you are at the desktop directory in the terminal. to create a new file, simply type "nano name_of_file" like: nano test.txt
	It is nice to specify the format of the file, like .txt or similar. An editor then opens and you can write on the different lines in the file. To save, press Ctrl+x - this exits but since you haven't saved, it asks you to save: press y and enter a name for the file. Once the name is entered, press enter and you are back in the terminal.
	To edit, you simply type "nano file_name" of an existing file.
	
G: install gnu c compiler - done and done

H: answer question 0.

Questions 0:
1: how do you search in your man pages for a given keyword?
	If you are in a man page - like man ls - and then type /word. You will search for word in that man page. 
	
2: Which characters do you need to type for autocomplete the command "basename"?
	you need to type "basen"
	
3: Which characters do you need to type to autocomplete mkdir --parents ?
	You need to type: mkdir --p
	
4: How do you create a folder with a subfolder?
	you type in mkdir -p prog/hello - for a folder hello in a folder called prog. The -p states it is a parent folder
	
5: Which option instructs the rm command to ask the user for a confirmation before every removal?
	rm -i asks before removing a file. you can use -I for more than three files.

6:Which option instructs the rm command to remove a folder with all subfolders?
	-r removes folders. 
	
7: Which unix command lists the files in a directory in one column sorted by modification time with the newest last? 
	ls -l
	
8: What do symbols ., .., ~ mean in the context of the unix file utilities?
	The full stop "." is current directory - i.e. when you copy a directory from a path and the destination is the current directory, you type "." for the destination
	".." is the parent directory - so "cd .." will make you go back 1 one directory to the parent directory. 
	"~" is for home directory
	
9: Where will the command cd without any arguments lead you? 
	to my home directory
	
10: What is your home directory?
	for my it is at /home. I have a separate /home partion. 








