Questions 2 

1. What is the main function?
	The main function is where your program starts. It contains the main part of your program. It usually has the form: int main() {} where the () can contain void, while {} encloses the program you wish to execute. Main needs a return value. 
	
2. What is compilation and linking (of a C-program)? What is source code, object code, executable code? 
	Compiling a c program means the compiler (a program) reads your code and translates it to machine code (for the computer to execute). It checks that you have typed it correctly and will tell you any errors/warnings that you have in your code. 
	The source code is the human written code - i.e. the code/program you write
	The object code is the compiled computer-understadable code made by the compiler. 
	THe executable code is the code used to execute the object code. So source code is for humans language, object is translated into computer and executable is for executing the object. 
	
3. How can you compile and link a C-program which is wholly contained in one file, say hello.c? How do you run the resulting executable code? 
	You need a compiler - like GNU C compiler (gcc). you then type gcc "hello.c"
	the output will be in an executable file called a.out - run the file and see 
	the result from you hello.c (./a.out) 


4. How do you supply the compiler with the description of the printf function? Why 	do you need to do this? How do you link the printf function? 
	you need to include stdio.h which is a standard library of input and outputs.
	If you just type in printf without stdio.h, the computer won't know what it 
	is. It just thinks a string of characters. 
	
5. What is stdio.h? Why angle-brackets in #include<stdio.h>? Hint: C preprocessor: including files. 
	stdio.h is a library of STanDard Input and Outputs. It translate certain 
	names for the computer to understand. 
	<> makes sure the computer searches for the library in the standard compiler
	"" searches for the library in the current directory. 

6. How can you get the manual page of the C standard library function printf? Hint: there is also a utility printf in a POSIX system and man printf will show you the manual page for the printf utility, not the printf function from the C standard library. 
	You need to type "man 3 printf"
	
7. What are the built-in data types for numbers in the C-language? 
	integer, float(ing-point number), fixed
	There are also character (char) and str(ing) for letters
	
8. What is the result of the operation 1/2 in C? 
	it would give a 0, since it doesn't take into account the 0.5 and just rounds
	it off to 0. 

9. In order to use the C mathematical functions, do you need to include any header files? Link any library? Hint: man sin. 
	you need the library <math.h>. You also need to link it with -lm in the gcc.
	
10. What is tgmath.h? If you use tgmath.h do you need to link any library? 
	
	
